[En français](https://github.com/OpenDRR/national-human-settlement/blob/main/LISEZMOI.md)

Autogenerated from nhsl.yml

# National Human Settlement Layer

## Overview of this Repository

This repository is used for the development of the National National Human Settlement Layer. The National Human Settlement Layer (NHSL) is a collection of datasets that describe the physical and social characteristics of communities across Canada in the context of their vulnerability to natural hazards. Detailed information on land use, buildings, building asset values, people and community social vulnerability are provided at the approximate scale of neighbourhoods.

The Physical Exposure Layer component of the National Human Settlement Layer (NHSL) includes a delineation of settled areas and related land use across Canada, as well as information about buildings, persons, and capital value of buildings assets (structure and contents) within those areas.

The Social Vulnerability component of the National Human Settlement Layer (NHSL) includes information about broad spatial patterns of social vulnerability at the neighbourhood scale, and indicators about the capacities for a community to withstand and recover from disaster events based on intrinsic characteristics of housing, family structure, individual autonomy and financial agency.

These datasets have been developed to provide information about physical exposure and social vulnerability across Canada that can be used for quantitative risk assessment of natural hazards. The purpose is to support implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction at the local, regional, and national scales. The information is not intended for use in site-specific studies.

### Available Datasets

- [Physical Exposure](https://github.com/OpenDRR/national-human-settlement/tree/main/physical-exposure)
- [Social Vulnerability](https://github.com/OpenDRR/national-human-settlement/tree/main/social-vulnerability)

## Technical Use

It is possible to download individual files from the web, by clicking on either 'Raw' or 'Download' from the top right corner of a file preview page. For those wishing to clone this repository, please ensure you have Git LFS enabled on your machine prior to cloning.

## Documentation

_insert documentation and/or links_

## A Note on Acceptable Use

_insert acceptable use text_

## Attribution

If using any of these scenarios, please include reference to any works which are cited in the scenario descriptions as well as reference to the scenario catalogue itself. The following citation should be used:

_insert attribution text_
