[En français](https://github.com/OpenDRR/national-human-settlement/blob/main/physical-exposure/LISEZMOI.md)

Autogenerated from nhsl.yml

# National Human Settlement - Physical Exposure

The Physical Exposure component of the National Human Settlement Layer (NHSL), defined here as the ‘Physical Exposure Model’, includes a delineation of settled areas and related land use across Canada, as well as information about buildings, persons, and building replacement values (structure and contents) within those areas.

Buildings within the inventory are classified using a combination of occupancy types, engineering-based construction types adopted for Canada, and design levels representing the approximate building code requirements at the time of construction. The inventory is derived from detailed housing statistics provided at the dissemination block level as part of the 2016 national census and from georeferenced business listings. Building populations at different times of day are estimated for standard daytime hours (9am-5pm); for morning and evening commute hours (7am-9am; 5pm-7pm), and; for nighttime hours when the majority of people are home (7pm-7am). Replacement values are provided for structural, nonstructural, and contents components of buildings, based on industry replacement costs for representative regions across Canada.

In total, the model characterizes 35.2 million people in 9.7 million buildings across 390,000 locations with a total approximate replacement value of $8.2 trillion (2019 CAD) including contents.

## Documentation

A detailed summary of how the physical exposure model was generated, information it’s applications to natural hazards risk assessment, and key findings about the status of physical exposure to natural hazards in Canada is provided within the following Geological Survey of Canada Open File Report: Journeay, M., LeSueur, P., Chow, C., and Wagner, W. Physical Exposure to Natural Hazards in Canada. Geological Survey of Canada, OpenFile XXX.

We recommend that anyone who intendeds to use the datasets review this documentation. 

## A Note on Acceptable Use

The physical exposure model approximately represents the current building stock in Canada, and has been derived using a combination of best practices, available national-scale information, and judgement, but is subject to uncertainty. This model is not intended for site-specific assessment, and in general is expected to be more representative of actual conditions at higher scales of aggregation. The model is also based on information gathered from 2016 to 2020, and will be updated as new information becomes available. For any questions on the appropriate use of these data, please contact our team.
